---
title: Add a Comp
---

# TLDR;
Prepared to help with finding and reporting bugs? If so then you may be ready
to submit your comp's data and have it scored and published. The first thing to
do is open an [add
a comp](https://github.com/FlareTiming/comps/issues/new?template=add_comp.md)
issue. You'll find further instructions there.

## It's Complicated
The backstory is that GAP is a set of rules, laid down by CIVL, that regulate
how to score hang gliding and paragliding competitions. Nobody scores by hand
but that is nearly the attention to detail needed to implement a program that
does the scoring. This program will need to work with spherical and ellipsoidal
Earth models, find where tracklogs, those windy and loopy trails, cross and
re-cross the turnpoints cylinders of the day's flying task. The rules don't say
anything about how patchy and spikey a tracklog can be and still be accepted.
Does the tracklog start at yesterday's landing point?  Does't it end when the
pilot switches off their vario doing 100km/h in the team car? I'll leave off
enumerating a laundry list of difficulties. Suffice it to say implementing GAP
is no easy task.

I've had a go at implementing GAP in flare-timing and have asked [a few
questions](https://github.com/BlockScope/CIVL-GAP/issues) about how to
interpret the rules. I didn't want to look at how the official scoring program
did it as that could be wrong, no disrespect intended for the voluntary
development effort already put in to that program. The initial motivation I had
for re-implementing GAP was to independently produce a set of working and
result files that could be used to double-check the officially generated
results and show a bit more working in the process.

## What's in it for you?

By submitting your comp you'll get to have it scored (and published too if you
wish). All that you need provide is the comp's `*.fsdb` file along with
tracklogs in `*.igc` or `*.kml` format. By finding problems and raising issues
with the scoring, you'll be helping to make competitions fair and transparent
and possibly we'll be able to find and clear up more ambiguities in the rules.

## Thanks for Helping Out.
I want to thank scorers that have already given me comp data and answered
questions I had; Igor, Davis, Billo and Wesley. Jörg and Daniel, developers of
FS, have helped fill in gaps in my understanding of the rules and have
explained how FS goes about scoring.
